Chapter Summary: This was different. This was, like, really different. Sometimes different isn't good at all.
-----

I slept. I woke. I ate.

In silence.

At the table. So it didn't turn out to be breakfast in bed, after all. Of course, it wasn't breakfast-time anymore either, so I guess that made it okay, or, if not okay, then it took away any reason that I might have to complain about the service.

Not that I had any complaints. The service, or the server, being Rosalie Lillian Hale, was impeccable. No, my complaints were about me, and why I still couldn't see, and I still couldn't move, and why ...

And why everything. Why was everything so hard, all the time? And when would it ever get easier? Ever? Never?

"Rosalie," I said, "I have a question..."

"No," Rosalie cut in harshly.

Um. What?

"Um," I said. "I didn't even get to ask my question. Don't I get to ask my question first before you answer it?"

"No!" Rosalie almost shouted in my ear. Almost. "What you get to do is finish your oatmeal, and then ..."

She bit off the rest of her answer, angrily feeding me another spoonful of oatmeal, so my own response, that is: any that I could muster, was smothered in oatmeal-ly goo in my mouth.

I moved the gruel in my mouth as I fumed, then swallowed the too-big-bite hard.

I cleared my throat twice around my sealed-tight lips, discouraging any ideas She might get.

"And then I can ask my question?" I demanded angry.

GLUMP! Another spoonful went into my mouth the instant before I could reseal my lips tight, damn her!

Tight-...ly.

Whatever.

"No." Rosalie said in a more normal speaking voice, but even though the volume had gone down, the intensity did not.

"Are you angry with me, Rosalie?" I got that question around my mouthful. I'm a little bit proud to say with even a bit a lady-like decorum, well, for a full mouth.

Baby steps.

Rosalie sighed. "No," she said. Golly! Somebody was being all negative today! "I'm not angry with you." she emphasized.

"But you are angry?" I confirmed.

GLUMP! another spoonful of oatmeal went into my mouth.

I would complain – What? Was she fattening me up for the eventual kill? Was that it? – but it also happened to be the best gruel I've ever tasted in my life. I didn't know it was possible to make oatmeal taste better than wallpaper paste, but here it was: honeyed-sweet, but not too much, bursts of fruitiness when I bit into a raisin inflated by the slow-cook in boiling water so they weren't raisins anymore, but honest-to-God (almost) grapes, right in the middle of dead Winter, and how was that possible? But here it was: oatmeal that actually tasted good, bordering on great.

All because the Rosalie Hale made it. Just for me. Like everything she does nowadays.

And what was I going to be complaining about then? The service? Or the server?

Yeah. Right.

But she was angry.

Rosalie sighed. "Why is it that I say 'no questions,' but you ask your questions, anyway, my princess?"

I blushed. Hard. At two words: princess, which was a totally undeserved accusation and stuck in my craw, making me furious, and my, which was totally confusing, coming from Rosalie Hale, and the implications of that word left me all flustered and, well: confused.

And notice that I ask questions, she doesn't answer them, but instead asks me a question that demands an answer? And why? Because it was the principle of the thing!

"And who said you can tell me what to do, Rosalie Hale, huh?" I asked quietly. "I'm ..."

Rosalie interrupted me with another GLUMP! of oatmeal.

I really have to anticipate her better... better than she anticipates my every move and thought.

Yeah.

I heard the precise sound of Rosalie placing the spoon in the bowl, then she took me into her arms and pulled me into her, tight...ly.

"I did," she whispered into my ear softly.

But that low, possessive sound, almost a snarl, turned my insides into mush (the mush I had been eating, I observed), and it was a good thing I wasn't standing because my knees would've just given out, just by the sound of her voice.

It was a call to me, my inmost being, and even as I tried to fight the pull of it, my body knew exactly what it wanted, and answered it.

Eagerly, too, I noted.

Damn me.

Ha! Rosalie Hale with her foul, silver tongue had gotten to me, even in my thoughts. Before I had met her, I had never heard the 'f'-word. I didn't even know what it meant.

Now ... well, let's just say my horizons had been ... 'expanded.'

I had almost thought 'fuck me!' to curse myself, but if I thought that, Rosalie would read my mind and possibly take that as an invitation to do ... well: something!

Not that that would be a bad thing, at all, as far as I saw it.

Hm. Fuck me!

I blushed again. And Rosalie, instead of doing anything, just waited me out.

Damn her!

"Well," I said, all flustered, "I didn't!"

"Eheh," Rosalie purred evilly, and the jello of my insides just got all the more jello-... um, y. Her cheek rubbed against the side of my face, burning me wherever she touched my skin. "Yes, you did."

The way she said that: there was no uncertainty in her voice. She was stating a fact. She was stating the fact about me and for me, and that just so ticked me off. Her easy assumption of ownership! And I thought I was supposed the be the princess here! Wasn't the princess supposed to, well, boss everybody else around? But no, I was her princess! So what did that mean? That I'd just sit on her lap and look pretty?

Boy, Rosalie Hale can sure pick 'em! Nobody in Carter county would make the mistake of calling me pretty!

But Rosalie Hale was like nobody in Carter county, now, was she.

No. That's not right. That's not even close. Carter county? Rosalie Hale was like nobody in the whole world.

I recollected myself. I was angry at her. I am angry at her! So angry at her!

"No, I didn't!" I said hotly.

And the whole time, the heat on my face, the heat my body, was saying something else entirely.

Fuck me, my body said. And I hate my body for its easy betrayal. I'm supposed to be angry at her! I shouted to my body.

But the way Rosalie held me, tightly, assuredly, possessively, made it difficult for my poor little brain to think over the clamoring need my body was sending out as a signal so strong I could feel it, ... I could almost taste it in my mouth!

God! How did I sink so low? I used to be a strong, independent woman. People in the county could talk – people did! – but did it bother me? Well, a little bit, but, okay, did it stop me from being me?

No!

Now, here, I felt ... 

I don't know. I felt so confused, but I knew that was a cop-out. I felt so boxed in, so confined. Everything was taken away from me, but instead of fighting it tooth and nail, as I should have been, here I was, sitting in Rosalie's lap, an obedient, little girl, eating oatmeal right out of her hand like I was some ... like I was her ... pet.

Or something.

I blushed hard at that bit of self-examination. I hated what I found in myself, that I was Rosalie's little pet-human. How degrading is that! But what I hated more was Rosalie for her uncompromising demand: she never accepted anything less than the answer she wanted, and usually, ... okay, well: always, that answer was a hard truth about myself that I did not like at all. Why did I have to be just a play-thing for Rosalie?

And why did she get me ... and get to be angry about it!

Rosalie said nothing in reply, but instead of me feeling like I won this one, I felt ...

... I felt like the loser. I defend myself, and what does she do? Fight me back? No. She disengages. 'Oh, you're not worth my time to fight you on this anymore, because you're just wrong.' It made me feel ... petty, was the word she used.

I fumed. "You didn't answer my question," I added angrily.

"The one I told you you couldn't ask?" Rosalie clarified.

"Yes," I hissed testily. "That one."

Rosalie chuckled softly. "Yes," she said, then clarified: "yes, Bella, I am angry... with myself. Furious, in fact."

"Huh," I said, pondering, then a spoon against my lips, and I pondered more as I munched away on my oatmeal, and okay, really? How big was this bowl that Rosalie was feeding me from? Was she forcing the whole damn pot down my throat this ... afternoon, now, maybe?

I swallowed my bite. "You didn't sound angry a minute ago, ..." when you were purring in my ear, I thought, and blushed at that thought, then I added quickly to cover my embarrassment, "nor now, neither, for that matter."

Rosalie moved the spoon around in the bottomless bowl and put the spoon to my lips. I shook my head no; I felt like I was about to pop like a balloon stuffed too full of, well, oatmeal.

"Hmmphf," Rosalie chuffed her displeasure with me, but she removed the spoon from my lips.

"I can be angry and thoughtful, or angry and productive, or ..." she paused a beat, "angry and seductive, sweetie. I'm a woman, after all, and not stuck with one thought or mood like men are."

"Hm," I said. That was about all I could muster. Rosalie admitting she was being seductive at the end threw me off. I swallowed quickly, even there was no oatmeal in my mouth, just an aftertaste.

I cleared my throat. "So," I asked, "but you are angry?"

Rosalie put her spoon and wrapped me in her arms. "Yes," she whispered tightly in my ear.

"... at ... yourself?" I checked.

"Yes," she stated again.

"Okay, um ..." I thought about it. I came up blank. "Okay, why?" Oops! Don't ask Rosalie Hale why-questions! "I mean, um, okay, you hate why-questions. Sorry!" Don't apologize! Rosalie Hale hates apologies!

I told myself to shut up, please, and let me think for God's sake!

"So, um, ..." Don't say 'um'! Rosalie Hale hat-... JUST SHUT UP!

God! My head was chatty today!
