              Manufacturing and service enterprises invest significant resources in the design
              and operation of factories and warehouses.  If properly executed, the physical
              configuration of these facilities can simplify the flow of material and
              products.  If poorly executed, it can lead to severe inefficiencies, high
              operating costs, and poor quality.  Over the years, much attention has been
              focused on effectively planning the layout of manufacturing and logistical
              facilities.  In contrast, the design and planning of retail facilities has been
              given little attention despite the importance of the retail sector to the
              overall economy.  Retail layout problems differ from manufacturing/logistics
              layout problems in several significant ways:  (1) the objective of retail
              facilities is to maximize sales rather than to minimize travel time or material
              moves; (2) customer demand is both highly variable and unpredictable; (3)
              customers often augment an initial shopping list with impulse items that they
              encounter in their sojourn through the facility; 
(4) retail facilities are
              essentially self service facilities; (5) and except for checkout, customers are
              an integral part of the service mechanism.

The goal of this research is to
              develop a framework for a quantitative approach to the design of retail
              facilities.  Our activities are focused on modeling customer demand,
              characterizing customer flow, and formulating suitable optimization problem(s),
              including specifying an appropriate objective function and constraints for both
              the physical layout of customer paths and the sequencing of product families in
              the facility.  We intend to focus on non-traditional layouts that we believe
              may significantly outperform traditional aisle-based layouts commonly found in
              many retail facilities. While this research is exploratory in nature, it will
              build on the long history of research in layout for manufacturing facilities. 
              Moreover, we believe this research has the potential to extend operations
              research techniques to an important economic sector that has been overlooked in
              the past.  Additionally, this research will open a new area for teaching
              facility design.  It will provide the foundation for introducing retail
              facility layout into facility design courses, which are common core courses in
              industrial engineering curricula.

