              Telomeres are nucleoprotein structures that form a protective cap on the ends of
              eukaryotic chromosomes and protect them from end-to-end fusions and
              degradation.  Telomeres are generated and sustained through the action of
              telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein complex with reverse transcriptase activity. 
              In mammals, telomerase is part of a biological clock that determines the
              capacity for cellular proliferation, as its expression is strongly linked to
              aging and tumorigenesis. Previous studies have shown that the model plant,
              Arabidopsis, exhibits an exceptionally high tolerance to telomere dysfunction. 
              In this research, molecular, genetic and cytogenetic approaches will be
              conducted to investigate how telomerase conveys stability to the Arabidopsis
              genome and to identify new components of the telomerase holoenzyme complex. The
              first objective is to examine the plasticity of the plant genome and
              developmental profile by studying how plants that lack telomerase can recover
              when the enzyme activity is restored. Objectives two and three focus on
              identifying and characterizing components of the telomerase holoenzyme.
              Molecular and biochemical approaches will be used to identify the RNA subunit
              of telomerase.  When the telomerase RNA is in hand, mutations will be
              introduced into the telomere templating domain to investigate how changing the
              nucleotide sequence of the telomere affects genome stability.  The third
              objective is to examine the function of dyskerin in Arabidopsis. The human
              dyskerin protein binds to the telomerase RNA subunit.  Mutations in this gene
              lead to the genetic disorder, dyskeratosis congenita, which is characterized by
              defects in stem cell proliferation.  Objective three will determine whether
              dyskerin plays a role in telomere maintenance and telomerase RNP biogenesis in
              Arabidopsis. As part of this study, a mutation will be engineered in the
              Arabidopsis dyskerin gene in an attempt to mimic the disease dyskeratosis in
              plants. Together, these studies will not only provide novel information about
              the role of telomerase in plants, but are also likely to yield insight into the
              structure of the telomerase RNP holoenzyme and its function in conveying genome
              stability to a broad range of higher eukaryotes.



