              The proposed research to be undertaken will continue and extend a long-standing
              program of research in nonlinear econometric methods. The view is that an
              econometric specification is an approximation to the underlying data generating
              mechanism. In keeping with this view, methodologies have been developed that
              sequentially improve the approximation as information becomes available, and
              permit reliable inference at each intermediate stage of model evolution. These
              objectives have been accomplished at a level of generality that encompasses
              most nonlinear econometric inference procedures. The basic idea is to endow a
              procedure with nonparametric properties by replacing the structural model with
              a truncated series expansion, the error density with a truncated expansion, or
              both. By letting the truncation point grow adaptively with sample size, the
              approximation is accurate enough at each intermediate stage to permit reliable
              inference and ultimate convergence to the underlying data generating mechanism
              is assured.
Tightly parameterized structural modeling can be carried out
              within this paradigm. The idea is to require that moments implied by the
              structural model match the scores of a model developed according to the
              methodology described above. This estimator has certain advantages. Estimates
              can be made as efficient as if maximum likelihood had been employed. Unlike
              maximum likelihood, the computational burden does not increase if the state
              vector is partially observed either because the structural model contains
              latent variables or because data is missing. Studentized scores serve as
              diagnostic tests and, because the scores correspond to identifiable features of
              data, failure to pass a diagnostic indicates which features of data a tightly
              parameterized structural model cannot explain. This is an invaluable aid to
              model development.
The specific proposal is to establish that the advantages
              claimed above follow from assumptions that are more primitive than the high
              level assumptions used to date, to improve computational efficiency, and to
              continue an ongoing program of empirical work that exploits the new
              methodologies discussed above. Initial work will focus on the estimation of
              structural macro models with attention to the simultaneous use of time series
              and panel data. Reduced form applications will focus on methods for extracting
              the continuous time volatility process from discretely sampled asset prices and
              efficiently predicting functionals of the continuous time process such as
              integrated forward volatility.


