
436eb0dd-2461-51d6-a782-648c4e7709d1

New rules could curb the giving and receiving of handouts in Chesapeake

CHESAPEAKE
The City Council voted unanimously to approve changes that could reduce panhandling in the city.
The “solicitation ordinance,” as Assistant City Attorney Kelly Lackey referred to it in a pre-meeting work session, includes a ban on cars stopping at green lights unless it’s to yield to another car or a crossing pedestrian. It also makes it illegal to “stand, sit, squat or lie in between motor vehicle traffic lanes on any public right of way” when there are four or more lanes or where the posted speed limit is 35 mph or higher.
The new rules include curbs and gutters in its definition of public right of way, but not sidewalks or pedestrian trails. People legally crossing the street, emergency personnel, some city volunteers and supervised inmates mowing or doing ditch maintenance are among the exceptions.
Violators could be ordered to do community service or fined up to $200 for pedestrians and $350 for drivers.  Vice Mayor John de Triquet was absent.
Walter Bank IV was the only speaker to oppose the new regulations. He feared panhandlers are likely to “violate the spirit of the rule” and just be shoved aside onto the sidewalks without the root causes of why they’re out there to begin with being addressed. He also noted community organizations have used the medians to collect donations.
He asked council members to take another look at the issue and explore creative solutions – sponsorships or connecting people to jobs, for example – versus more rules.
“You don’t have to give them anything but a little help, and maybe that will solve the problem,” Bank said.
The city recently repealed an ordinance related to begging on city streets. The new rules  were introduced by way of addressing public safety concerns  and after a proliferation of panhandling over the past six months. The regulations will go into effect in 30 days.

1a698950-81bc-5658-a6ae-70cebfdeb8ec

2 dead in Norfolk shooting off Northampton Boulevard

N
ORFOLK
Police responded to two more shootings Tuesday night.
In all, three people were shot and killed Tuesday in three shootings in the city, police said.
According to the Norfolk Police Department, a call came in around 7:15 p.m. for a shooting near the intersection of Northampton Boulevard and Military Highway. When officers arrived, police said, they found two men with gunshot wounds near two abandoned vehicles in the eastbound lanes of Northampton Boulevard. Both were pronounced dead at the scene.
An employee at the Hampton Inn and Suites near the crime scene said said she heard people yelling and then saw “cars flying” on Northampton Blvd. and came in. She was told moments later that police were out there. A guest told her there was about 40 emergency vehicles outside.
Police said they also responded to an earlier shooting in Ocean View near the 700 block of Dudley Avenue around 7:09 p.m. Officers found a 17-year-old suffering from an apparent gunshot wound. The teen was taken to Sentara Norfolk General Hospital and is expected to recover, police said. Another man had been
pistol-whipped at the Ocean View scene; no information was available about his condition.
Officer Daniel Hudson, police spokesman, said he did not know if the shootings were related.
This is the third shooting in Norfolk today.  Another took place earlier Tuesday  around 2 p.m. in the 2800 block of Harrell Ave., where a man died.
Tuesday’s shootings bring Norfolk’s homicide count to four in three days.

4f5f14d4-f7ab-511c-8fe3-0cf43938703e

Norfolk State women overpower Towson

NORFOLK
Raven Russell scored a season-high 22 points Tuesday, and the Norfolk State women's basketball team pulled away in the fourth quarter an 86-76 win over Towson at Echols Hall.
First Colonial High grad Gabrielle Swinson added 18 points of 6-for-9 shooting along with six rebounds and six assists in her season debut for the Spartans (3-5), who snapped a two-game skid.
The Tigers (4-5) kept it close until the final quarter, but NSU closed the game on a 9-2 run.
The Spartans set season highs in scoring, field-goal percentage (48.4) and 3-point percentage (57.1). They host UNC Greensboro at 6 p.m. Friday.

4e6d065b-9914-5c47-b79e-688072f9be0a

This visitor from beyond our solar system will be probed for signs of life

Our solar system has a visitor. It's cylindrical, dark and reddish, a quarter-mile long. The object won't be staying. This fall, astronomers announced that the thing came blazing into our neck of the galaxy at speeds of up to 196,000 mph. It is now headed away as quickly as it came.
The object's trajectory is so strange and its speeds are so blistering that it probably did not originate from within our solar system. Its discoverers concluded that the object is a rare interstellar traveler from beyond our solar system, the first object of its kind observed by humans.
Astronomers at the University of Hawaii, who discovered the object with the Pan-STARRS 1 telescope, said the visitor was an asteroid. In October, they named the asteroid 'Oumuamua - Hawaiian for "messenger." 'Oumuamua, which appears rocky or metallic, lacks the characteristics of a comet.
Some scientists, though they are swift to say 'Oumuamua is probably natural, have not yet ruled out more extraordinary origins. "The possibility that this object is, in fact, an artificial object - that it is a spaceship, essentially - is a remote possibility," Andrew Siemion, director of the Berkeley Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence Research Center, told The Washington Post on Monday.
Siemion is a member of the Breakthrough Listen initiative: a $100 million project, backed by Russian billionaire Yuri Milner, to hunt for extraterrestrial intelligence. This week, researchers with the Breakthrough Listen initiative announced that a radio telescope will probe 'Oumuamua for signs of technology. The telescope, nestled within the hills of the Green Bank Observatory in West Virginia, begins its search on Wednesday.
'Oumuamua behaves oddly. Planets and asteroids circle the sun on the same plane, like water swirling around a basin. 'Oumuamua dipped into the solar system from outside the plane, as if leaked from a cosmic faucet.
It is shaped strangely, too. Most asteroids of this size are spherical. This object has the proportions of a giant cucumber. In fact, Harvard University astronomer Avi Loeb recently told Milner that 'Oumuamua has the optimal design of a vessel meant to travel through space, the Atlantic reported.
Yet all of its features are "entirely consistent with being a natural object," said Karen Meech, the University of Hawaii astronomer who led the research team to measure 'Oumuamua's physical properties. "That being said, we cannot disprove the unlikely hypothesis that it is not."
Astronomers across the planet have turned their sensors at the object. The European Southern Observatory followed up on the initial Hawaiian detection from Chile, peering at 'Oumuamua through the Very Large Telescope in Chile.
Though the most likely explanation for 'Oumuamua is that it's lifeless rock, scientists aren't about to let it breeze by without scrutiny. That's why they are using Green Bank. Over the past 18 months, SETI astronomers have installed detectors at the telescope to look for signs of electromagnetic activity in space. If an electronic device no more powerful than a WiFi router or telephone handset is transmitting on 'Oumuamua, the telescope will be able to sense it.
"Green Bank is the most capable radio telescope in the world for conducting these types of observations," Siemion said.
"This is the sort of opportunity that one would hate to miss, even if the chances are extremely low for success," Meech said. SETI researchers typically measure the distance to curious objects in light-years. 'Oumuamua is still within light-minutes of Earth.
"If you don't try the experiment," she added, "you will never know."

b1e0401f-815c-5512-88ba-92f4be52fafd

ODU running back Josh Marriner picks up Conference USA Spirit of Service Award

IRVING, TEXAS
Old Dominion senior running back Josh Marriner picked a Conference USA Spirit of Service Award, the league announced Tuesday.
The awards are given to a player from each school during the fall, winter and spring seasons and recognize community service efforts, academics and sports participation.
Marriner, a Western Branch grad who transferred to ODU from Connecticut, is working on a master's degree in public administration and carries a 3.51 GPA.
Marriner compiled 87 rushing yards on 24 carries during his career as a Monarch. He also added 14 tackles on special teams during his two seasons.
